Chrome 47 automatically
generates a splash screen
for web apps launched from
the home screen on Android.
You can defer script
execution until idle
with requestIdleCallback,
and push notifications
will automatically
dismiss on desktop.
These are just a few
of the new features
for developers in Chrome 47.
Let's dive in and see
what's new in Chrome.
Making the web app
experience better
has been a major
focus for Chrome.
To make it easier for users
to re-engage with your app,
Add to Home Screen
puts your app directly
on the Android home screen.
And you can customize
the way your app looks
when it's launched by
modifying the web app manifest.
Adjusting colors, eliminating
the address bar, and more.
In Chrome 47, a
dynamically generated
splash screen is shown
even while Chrome
itself is loading,
making your app
look that much more polished.
In the past, users
typically saw a white screen
while waiting for
your app to load.
The splash screen
is generated based
on a combination of
information from the web app
manifest, including the
app name, background
color, and the icons.
Chrome will use the icon that
is closest to 128 device pixels.
So on a 1x device,
that's 128 by 128 pixels.
Or on a 2x device, it's
256 by 256, and so forth.
Personally, I recommend
providing a 1x, a 2, a 3,
and a 4x version of your icon.
That'll make sure that you're
well covered for all devices.
When a user launches your
app from their home screen,
the splash screen is shown, and
once your app begins to draw,
the splash screen disappears.
One of the biggest problems
hurting critical path
is lots of JavaScript
executing at the wrong time.
If it's run at the
wrong time, for example,
when the user scrolls the
page, or you append a Dom
element while the user
is tapping a button,
things can become unresponsive.
RequestIdleCallback
changes that.
In the same way that
requestanimationframe allows
us to schedule animations
properly and maximize
our chances of hitting 60
FPS, requestIdleCallback
will schedule work
when there's free
time, either at the
end of the frame
or when the user's inactive.
Functions registered
with requestIdleCallback
are given a deadline and should
return before that timeline is
reached.
Otherwise you'll introduce Jank.
If there's still work
to do, the function
can register for another
requestIdleCallback
to continue the work during
the next idle period.
RequestIdleCallback is
now available in Chrome
and is coming to
other browsers soon.
In the meantime you can
check out the [? shim ?].
So give it a shot and let
us know what you think
by Tweeting us @ChromiumDev.
Push notifications
powered by service workers
have been available
since Chrome 42.
And we've heard from
users and developers
alike that on
desktop notifications
would remain visible until
the user dismissed them.
Chrome 47 now automatically
dismisses desktop notifications
after about 20 seconds unless
you set requireInteraction true
when calling show notification.
There are lots of other new
features for developers.
For example, array
prototype includes,
which simplifies checking
array membership.
You can now innumerate cameras,
microphones, and speakers
with the
navigator.MediaDevices API.
And prefixed encrypted
media extensions
are now disabled in favor
of un-prefixed EMEs.
These are just a few of the
new features in Chrome 47
for developers.
Be sure to check out
the description below
to get links to more
details and learn about some
of the other new features.
If you haven't
already, subscribe
to our Chrome Developers
YouTube channel
to stay up-to-date
with the latest news.
I'm Pete LePage, and as soon
as Chrome 48 is released,
I'll be right here to tell
you what's new in Chrome.